.TH PYOSMIUM\-UP\-TO\-DATE "1" "2026\-01\-31" "pyosmium 4.3.0" "Generated Python Manual"
.SH NAME
pyosmium\-up\-to\-date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pyosmium\-up\-to\-date
[options] <osm file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Update an OSM file with changes from a OSM replication server.

Diffs are downloaded and kept in memory. To avoid running out of memory,
the maximum size of diffs that can be downloaded at once is limited
to 1 GB per default. This corresponds to approximately 3 days of update.
The limit can be changed with the \-\-size parameter. However, you should
take into account that processing the files requires additional memory
(about 1GB more).

The starting time is automatically determined from the data in the file.
For PBF files, it is also possible to read and write the replication
information from the osmosis headers. That means that after the first update,
subsequent calls to pyosmium\-up\-to\-date will continue the updates from the same
server exactly where they have left of.

This program can update normal OSM data files as well as OSM history files.
It detects automatically on what type of file it is called.

The program returns 0, if updates have been successfully applied up to
the newest data or no new data was available. It returns 1, if some updates
have been applied but there is still data available on the server (either
because the size limit has been reached or there was a network error which
could not be resolved). Any other error results in a return code larger than 1.
The output file is guaranteed to be unmodified in that case.

Some OSM data sources require a cookie to be sent with the HTTP requests.
pyosmium\-up\-to\-date does not fetch the cookie from these services for you.
However, it can read cookies from a Netscape\-style cookie jar file, send these
cookies to the server and will save received cookies to the jar file.

.TP
\fB<osm file>\fR
OSM file to update

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Increase verbosity (can be used multiple times).

.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fI\,OUTFILE\/\fR, \fB\-\-outfile\fR \fI\,OUTFILE\/\fR
Name output of file. If missing, the input file will be overwritten.

.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR \fI\,FORMAT\/\fR
Format the data should be saved in. Usually determined from file name.

.TP
\fB\-\-server\fR \fI\,SERVER_URL\/\fR
Base URL of the replication server. Default: https://planet.osm.org/replication/hour/ (hourly diffs from osm.org)

.TP
\fB\-\-diff\-type\fR \fI\,SERVER_DIFF_TYPE\/\fR
File format used by the replication server (default: osc.gz)

.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fI\,SIZE\/\fR, \fB\-\-size\fR \fI\,SIZE\/\fR
Maximum size of change to apply at once in MB. Defaults to 1GB when no end ID or date was given.

.TP
\fB\-\-end\-id\fR \fI\,ID\/\fR
Last sequence ID to download.

.TP
\fB\-E\fR \fI\,DATE\/\fR, \fB\-\-end\-date\fR \fI\,DATE\/\fR
Do not download diffs later than the given date.

.TP
\fB\-\-tmpdir\fR \fI\,TMPDIR\/\fR
Directory to use for temporary files. Usually the directory of input file is used.

.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-osmosis\-headers\fR
Ignore potential replication information in the header of the input file and search for the newest OSM object in the file instead.

.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fI\,WIND_BACK\/\fR, \fB\-\-wind\-back\fR \fI\,WIND_BACK\/\fR
Number of minutes to start downloading before the newest addition to input data. (Ignored when the file contains a sequence ID.) Default: 60

.TP
\fB\-\-force\-update\-of\-old\-planet\fR
Apply update even if the input data is really old.

.TP
\fB\-\-cookie\fR \fI\,COOKIE\/\fR
Netscape\-style cookie jar file to read cookies from and where received cookies will be written to.

.TP
\fB\-\-socket\-timeout\fR \fI\,SOCKET_TIMEOUT\/\fR
Set timeout for file downloads.

.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
show program's version number and exit

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Sarah Hoffmann
.fi
.nf
lonvia@denofr.de
.fi

.SH DISTRIBUTION
The latest version of pyosmium may be downloaded from
.UR https://github.com/osmcode/pyosmium/
.UE
